FAQ 9:
Question: Lipa Mdogo Mdogo
Linked Answer: Who is eligible? 

a. ItÆs available to all prepaid customers who meet the eligibility criteria.b. Dial *544# to check your eligibility.

 Which phones do I qualify for? 

Dial *544*5# and select from the available phones.

 Where can I collect the phone? 

Visit any Safaricom shop or Safaricom Authorized dealer near you. You will need your ID card and a deposit of the selected device in your M-PESA.

 How do I make the repayments? 

Dial *544*5# or the Lipa Mdogo Mdogo App and select pay for daily, weekly, monthly or full payment.

 What happens if I donÆt pay? 

Safaricom will lock the device and bar you from making calls/Smses.
Should you default for 30 days, you will be blacklisted and disqualified from other loan facilities and your details will be forwarded to the CRB.

 Can my M-PESA repayments be reversed in case of wrong transaction? 

No. An M-PESA reversal for an existing Lipa Mdogo Mdogo loan cannot be reversed.

 Do I get data bundles or free airtime when I make payments? 

ò Yes. You will receive a free 1GB Data Bundle at the point of purchase.
ò For each installment payment, you will receive a voice, data and sms bundle based on payment selected i.e; daily, weekly and monthly.

 Which mode of payment is available to pay for the phone? 

You will only be able to pay via M-PESA.

 Can I pay using Fuliza? 

No. You must deposit money on M-PESA to pay.


 Can I purchase the phone for another person? 

Yes. You are at liberty to buy the phone for someone else. Please note that your registered line shall be responsible for repayments.

 How do I check my loan balance? 

Dial *544*5#, select Lipa Mdogo Mdogo, then check balance. Or check from the Lipa Mdogo App.

 Does the phone come with warranty? 

The phones have a one year manufacturerÆs warranty. Terms and conditions apply.

 Can I pay the full amount at once? 

Yes. You have the option of paying in full if you have the funds on your M-PESA.

How many phones can I buy at ago? 

You will only be able to buy one phone at a time.

 Can I return a phone after it has been activated? 

No, you must clear the loan as per the agreement.

 Is it possible to pay the loan for another number? 

Yes. Dial *544*5# and choose pay for another option.

If I lose my phone how will I pay for the loan?

Dial *544*5# on and select pay. Customer can also use another Safaricom number to pay for the loan (dial *544*5#, select pay for another, enter number with the loan and pay).

 Does the Lipa Mdogo Mdogo app require data to unlock?

Yes. You will require data bundles for app to connect and unlock.

How do I pay when the device is locked? 

Dial *544*50# to pay the accrued amount and unlock the simcard and the phone.

What is the validity of the resources awarded? 

The validity of the resources will be dependent on the repayment mode the customer has picked. Daily(24hr) Weekly (7days) Monthly (30days).

Can I Sambaza or transfer resources? 

No, resources are not transferrable.
==============================
FAQ 10:
Question: DigiFarm
Linked Answer: What is DigiFarm? 


DigiFarm is a FREE Safaricom service that offers farmers convenient, one-stop access to quality farm inputs at discounted prices, input loans, learning content on farming as well as access to market. Other value-add services provided through DigiFarm include insurance yield cover and extension services through remote agronomists located at the DigiFarm call center or on ground DigiFarm Village Advisors (DVA).


 What are the features of DigiFarm? 


Buy Inputs:
Registered farmers will have access to discounted farm inputs from DigiFarm Master Agents located nearest to them in different counties across the country.

Learn:
Registered farmers will be able to access learning information on livestock and crops to educate them on best farming practices that will help them maximize their yield.

Loan:
Registered farmers will have access to a credit voucher which they can redeem to receive farm inputs such as feeds, seeds and fertilizers from the DigiFarm Master Agent.

DigiSoko:
Registered farmers will be provided with access to market services where they will have an opportunity to sell their produce at competitive rates.

My Profile:
This feature enables registered farmers to view their details including farms, value chains, loans, learning in progress and insurance options.

 Do I need to pay to access DigiFarm Services? 


No, DigiFarm services are free.


How do I register and access DigiFarm services? 


To register and access DigiFarm services:
Option 1: 
Download the DigiFarm app from Google Play Store and follow the onscreen instructions to register.
Option 2: 

Dial *944#
Accept the Terms and Conditions
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the registration process

To register you will need your ID Number, County, Sub-county, Ward, Value Chain (s) and your Size of land. Once registered, you will receive an SMS confirming the registration and your DigiFarm Farmer Number.
To access DigiFarm services after registration:

Dial *944#
Select the service you would like to access from the menu


 What is a DigiFarm Farmer Number? 


Once you have registered on DigiFarm platform, you will be issued with a DigiFarm Farmer Number which is your unique identification number on the DigiFarm platform. You will use this number to redeem input loan vouchers and use other services in the DigiFarm ecosystem.


 How do I know my DigiFarm Farmer Number? 


To know your DigiFarm farmer number:
Option 1

Go to the DigiFarm app home screen navigation bar
Select æMy ProfileÆ
Your farmer number will be listed on your profile page

Option 2

Dial *944#
Select æMy ProfileÆ
Select æFarmer detailsÆ
You will receive an SMS with the number


 Who is a contracted farmer? 


A DigiFarm contracted farmer is a farmer who has entered into an agreement with DigiFarm to farm a specific value chain that is linked to a buyer or has ready market available. DigiFarm will walk the journey with the farmer by providing access to credit facilities, quality input and training on best farming practices to ensure that the harvest is of the highest quality as required by the buyer. At the end of the season, DigiFarm will buy all the harvest from the farmer at competitive market prices.
DigiFarm uses a buyer-led model which means that the demand and ready market for the produce comes directly from buyers who have expressed an interest in buying particular value chains. By the time DigiFarm is contracting a farmer to farm a specific value chain, we already have a ready market for the produce.

 Who is a DigiFarm Master Agent? 


A DigiFarm Master Agent (DMA) is a local inputs distributor who has a relationship with the farmers they serve in their area. They act as a DigiFarm service center where the farmers can redeem their loan vouchers to receive inputs, get agronomy advice on their crops and aggregate their yield at the end of the season for DigiFarm to collect.


 How do I access the discounted farm inputs? 


Visit any of your closest DigiFarm Master Agents to buy inputs at discounted prices. In order to transact, you will be requested to present your DigiFarm Farmer Number and National ID. This feature is only available for contracted farmers.



 How do I know the nearest DigiFarm Master Agent? 


To know your nearest DigiFarm Master Agent:
Option 1

Go to the DigiFarm app home screen
Select æFind a Master AgentÆ
You will be prompted to enable location services on your mobile phone so as to determine the DigiFarm Master Agents that are closest to your location.
Alternatively, Select the ôAll Master Agentsö tab to view Master Agents by region or search for a Master Agent by name.

Option 2

Dial *944#
Select æBuy InputsÆ
Select æFind Nearest Master AgentÆ
You will receive a SMS with the name of your nearest DigiFarm Master Agent.


 What types of inputs are available at the DigiFarm Master Agent? 



Mineral supplements (livestock & dairy)
Feeds
Fertilizer
Agro-chemicals
Seeds
Veterinary Products


 How do I pay for the inputs? 


To pay for inputs:

Contracted farmers û redeem the e-voucher issued by DigiFarm based on the credit loan awarded at the nearest DigiFarm Master Agent.
Non contracted farmers û pay cash through the Lipa Na Mpesa till number provided or displayed at the DigiFarm Master Agent premises.


 How do I access learning content? 


To access learning content:
Option 1 

Go to the DigiFarm app home screen
Select the learn module of preference to view.

Option 2

Dial*944#
Select æLearnÆ
Select the content provider you want to learn from
The learning content will be sent to you via SMS

Learning content and messages are free.

 What can I learn about? 


The farmer will be able to get learning any of the topics below:
 i) Crop training 
á- Learn how to increase your yield with farming best practices.
á- Learn about safe and proper use of herbicides, pesticides and fungicides.
ii) Dairy Farming û learn how to reduce costs and increase milk production by following best practices in:

Health management
Breeding
Feeding and milk production
Milk handling
Housing
Record Keeping


iii) Poultry Farming û Learn how to farm improved kienyeji poultry for business by following best practices in:

Chick rearing
Feeding
Breeding
Farmer groups
Improved kienyeji chicken
Housing
Pests and diseases
Health and vaccinationá

iv) Financial education - Learn how to manage your money learning about best practices in:


Saving
Borrowing

v) DigiFarm Loan Training:áá
Learn about DigiFarm loans and how to qualify and access them.

 What types of loans does DigiFarm offer? 


DigiFarm offers a value-chain based loan called Mavuno to support a farming activity. Mavuno loan is tied to a value chain (crop) under cultivation and the size of land cultivated for that specific value chain.
The loan is currently for inputs only and allows you to get farming inputs at the start of the season, and then pay it back little by little during the season or later once a you have harvested and sold your produce. The loan balance will be automatically deducted through the check-off process once you have sold your produce to DigiFarm at the end of the season
The Mavuno loan amount is determined by the input package required per crop per acre and includes a facilitation fee of 1.83% per month and bundled with a MANDATORY insurance cover of 15%. (See insurance section below for details)

 What is a check-off process? 


This is the process by which Digifarm automatically deducts the loan value the farmer owes through the DigiFarm platform once the farmer sells the produce to Digifarm.


 What does the loan insurance cover? 


The insurance bundled with the Mavuno loan covers:


Yield impacting natural calamities e.g. drought, excessive rainfall, etcá


Monthly Credit Life Cost at 0.05% of sum assured with a benefit of 100% loan upon Death or permanent total Disability.


Free Life Assurance Cost with last expense (Funeral benefit) of 50,000/- to the main member.


**The Last Expense should not exceed the loan amount**

 Can I get a cash loan? 


No, currently you can only get a redeemable credit voucher.


 How do I qualify for a loan? 


You qualify for a DigiFarm loan if you have accepted the Terms & Conditions and have been contracted by DigiFarm to farm a specific value chain.


 How do I know how much loan I qualify for? 


The Mavuno loan amount is determined by input mix required for the specific value chain you will be farming and the size of land you will be farming on. For more information on the exact amount per season, the farmer can get more information from their DigiFarm Master Agent (DMA) or Village Advisor (DVA).


How do I apply for a loan? 


Before applying for the loan, the farmer will be required to pay a percentage of the loan amount up-front which is deducted from your M-PESA account during the loan application process with your consent. The percentage is dependent on the financial partner per season and the farmer can get more information from their DigiFarm Master Agent (DMA) or Village Advisor (DVA).
To progress and apply for a loan:
Option 1:

Go to the DigiFarm app home screen
Select æLoansÆ
Select æApply for loanÆ
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the process.

Option 2: 

Dial *944#
Select æLoansÆ
Accept the Terms and Conditions
Select æApply for loanÆ
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the process


 How do I get the inputs? 


Once your loan application is approved you will receive an SMS with a loan voucher code. Present the loan voucher code at a DigiFarm Master Agent within 60 days to redeem and collect your inputs. The loan amount repayable is the total cost of inputs you collected, plus the facilitation fee of 1.83% per month.


 Can I use the loan amount little by little? 


Yes, for the Mavuno loan the amount is issued with respect to the value chain milestones e.g., during planting, the farmer can collect inputs needed for that planting milestone, e.g seed and fertilizer


 What is the facilitation fee? 


The facilitation fee is 1.83% per month for Mavuno loan and it will be added to the total loan amount redeemed.


 When do I have to repay? 


Mavuno loan repayment is fully due at the end of the crop season for which the loan was taken but the farmer is allowed and encouraged to pay bit by bit throughout the specific season.


 How do I repay the loan? 


Once you collect your inputs, you will receive an SMS with the loan amount and repayment details.

To pay:

Option 1 

Dial *944#
M-PESA menu
PayBill, Business No.: 3014147
Account No.: 07xxxxxxxx (this should be the number you used to register on DigiFarm).
The amount you are paying
Follow the instructions to complete

Option 2 

Go to DigiFarm App
Select Loan module from the home screen
Select æPay LoanÆ option
Follow the instructions to complete

**Remember you can pay any amount at any time during the season with no transaction charges**

DigiFarm will deduct the loan amount and facilitation fee through an automatic check-off process when paying the farmers who have sold their produce to DigiFarm through the DigiFarm platform.

Farmers must avoid side selling to maintain good a credit record and increase their chances of qualifying for higher loan amounts in the future.


 What happens if I delay payments? 


A late repayment fee of 15% of the outstanding balance will be applied. Late and irregular repayments will also lead to a lower loan limit in future.


 What happens if I canÆt pay? 


Defaulting on the loan or non-repayment of the Mavuno loan, will lead to blacklisting by DigiFarm and also the Credit Reference Bureau (CRB).
 áááááá When you are blacklisted with DigiFarm, you will not be able to apply for another loan until you repay your loan in full.
When you are blacklisted with the Credit Reference Bureau (CRB), you cannot borrow from most lenders, including banks, SACCOs and M-Shwari.


 How do I increase my loan limit? 


The loan limit is determined by the specific value chain and phased out per milestone e.g. for the sunflower value chain, the input mix amount is Ksh 17,000 issued out across 5 phases, planting, weeding 1, weeding 2, harvesting and winnowing. However, based on your credit worthiness you can get less than the required amount.
You can progressively increase your loan limit in two ways:

Repay your loan on time.
Continue using DigiFarm services, like purchasing inputs at the Farm Master Agent, learning on the DigiFarm platform and using Safaricom services, like topping up airtime and using M-PESA and M-Shwari.



 What is credit worthiness and how is it determined? 


Credit worthiness is the extent to which a farmer is considered suitable to receive financial credit from DigiFarm based on their reliability in paying money back in the past with most lenders, including banks, SACCOs and M-Shwari..


 Can I get a top up on my current loan? 


DigiFarm will be issuing a milestone-based loan type which allows the farmer to access the input required at each milestone within their loan limit.á The farmer can top up at any stage to acquire the required quality input using the following steps:

Go to M-PESA menu
PayBill, Business No.: 3014147
Account No.: 07xxxxxxxx (this should be the number you used to register on DigiFarm).
The amount you are paying
Follow the instructions to complete
==============================
FAQ 11:
Question: Chapa Dimba na Safaricom
Linked Answer: What is Chapa Dimba na Safaricom?

Chapa Dimba na Safaricom is a national football tournament for male and female youth aged between 16-20 years. The aims of the tournament are to transform the lives of young people by giving them a platform to showcase their talent and an opportunity to earn from their passion.

How will the tournament run?


The Tournament will kick off with a national registration in the following regions: Nairobi, Eastern, Western, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Coast, Central and North Eastern.á
Each team will comprise of 15 players and 2 officials for the group stages. Proceeding teams will thereafter be allowed to recruit 3 additional players for the next level.
Registration will be open from 15th September and will close on 5th October, 2018.
To find out if your team has been successful in the vetting process visit www. chapadimba.safaricom.co.ke from 8th October.
Group Fixtures will take place from October 2018 and communication will be updated on our website with key dates and locations.
The Boys Tournament will be played in 5 Stages û Group Stage 1, Group Stage 2, Round of 16 (Knockout Basis), Regional Finals and National Finals.á
The Girls Tournament will be played in 5 Stages û Group Stage 1, Group Stage 2, Quarter Finals (Knockout Basis), Regional Finals and National Finals.
Each Regional Winner (Boys and Girls) will proceed to the National Tournament.
FIFA Rules will apply û any variations will be communicated to the teams before start of tournament.
THE REFEREES DECISION WILL BE FINAL


What are the benefits of chapa dimba na safaricom?


Get to participate in a National Youth League Tournament.
Get the opportunity to showcase your talent and stand a chance to get scouted by the Football Kenya Federation Talent Scouts to the National U-17 and U-20 Kenya Team and La Liga scouts to be one of the All Star players selected to attend a 10 day bootcamp in Madrid, Spain and play against top La Liga youth teams.


What is the calendar of activities for the tournament?

Group Stages Western  13th October to 18th November, 2018 Nyanza  3rd November to 9th December, 2018 Rift Valley 20th November to 10th February, 2019 Eastern  12th January to 17th February, 2019 Coast  16th February to 17th March, 2019 Central  23rd February to 24th March, 2019 N.Eastern 2nd February to 30th March, 2019 Nairobi 23rd March to 28th April, 2019 Regional Finals Western 1st - 2nd December, 2018 Nyanza 16th û 17th December, 2018 Eastern 23rd û 24th February, 2019 Rift Valley 9th û 10th March, 2019 Coast 23rd to 24th March, 2019 North Eastern 6th û 7th April, 2019 Central 20th û 21st April, 2019 Nairobi 3rd û 4 May, 2019 National Finals Finale 23rd to 26th May, 2019

How do i register my team to participate?

There are three ways to obtain registration forms. If registering on the website,

Download a form from the Safaricom website:á www.chapadimba.safaricom.co.ke
Collect a form from your nearest Safaricom Shop.
Collect forms from your local FKF Branch Office.

All forms must be completed and fully signed off with the required necessary documentation and dropped off at your local FKF Branch Office.
Is there a cost to register / participate?

NO û registration is completely free. You should not pay for a registration form. They are available free at all Safaricom Shops and local Football Kenya Federation Branch Offices.

Can I attend the games if i am not a player?

Yes û the games are open for fans to come and cheer their favourite teams.

What does the winning team win?

The winning team, both boys and girls, will win KShs. 1 million. In addition, we will disburse prize money as per below:



 Regional cash prizes




Boys Winner


á200,000.00




Boys Runners Up


á100,000.00




Boys Best Player


á30,000.00




Boys Top Scorer


á30,000.00




Boys Best Keeper


á30,000.00




Girls Winner


á200,000.00




Girls runners up


á100,000.00




Girls Top Scorer


á30,000.00




Girls Best Player


á30,000.00




Girls Best Keeper


á30,000.00




Total per region


á780,000.00 




Total for 8 regions


á6,240,000.00 


National Cash Prizes



Boys Winner


á1,000,000.00




Boys Runners Up


á500,000.00




Boys Losing Semi Finalists (KShs. 250,000 each)


á500,000.00




Boys Most Disciplined Team


á100,000.00




Boys Best Player


á50,000.00




Boys Top Scorer


á50,000.00




Boys Best Keeper


á50,000.00




Girls Winner


á1,000,000.00




Girls runners up


á500,000.00




Girls Losing Semi Finalists (KShs. 250,000 each)


á500,000.00


Girls Most Disciplined Team


á100,000.00




Girls Best Player


á50,000.00




Girls Top Scorer


á50,000.00




Girls Best Keeper


á50,000.00



Total for National


á4,500,000.00 




Add total for regional


á6,240,000.00 



TOTAL CASH PRIZE


á10,740,000.00
==============================